SPEAKER: "NullInjectorError,
No provider
for the injectable class."
You'll encounter
this error when you
attempt to inject a
service without declaring
the corresponding provider.
In other words, your code is
attempting to use a dependency,
but Angular has no
way to find or inject
that dependency because
there is currently
no provider pointing to it.
But what is a provider, exactly?
Think of it like a prescription
for a medication, where
the prescription is a
provider and the medication
is an injectable service.
What the error is
telling us is that we're
trying to use a medication
that has not been prescribed.
There are two places we
can address the issue--
the injectable decorator
or the provider's
array in an NgModule.
In either case, a provider is
composed of three main pieces
of information.
First, it needs to know where
to make the class available,
like the root of the
application or a feature module.
And second, it needs a token
for locating that class
within the dependency
injection system.
The token is the class type
that has been decorated.
In most cases, the token
will be the same as the class
that you want to provide.
However, it's
possible to provide
a third piece of
information, like useClass
to provide an entirely
different class
or useValue to
provide a raw value.
Let's start by taking a look
at a couple of common examples
and quick fixes.
Then we'll take a more detailed
look at injectors and providers
to understand why
this error happens
at a more fundamental level.
In our code base,
we have a service
decorated with injectable.
But currently, this
service has not
been provided to any NgModule
within the application.
When we attempt to inject it
in the constructor of the app
component, the result is
the NullInjectorError.
The error message itself
points to the offending class.
Now, there are two main ways
we might address the issue.
If we want to provide
the class throughout
the entire application, we
can use the providedIn "root"
option.
That'll provide a
global singleton
that can be used anywhere
in the application
and clears the error.
However, that may not always
be the optimal solution.
In some cases, it may be
more efficient to scope
a service to a feature module.
And that can be achieved
by providing an NgModule
class as the providedIn option.
That makes it possible
to exclude this code
from the app's main
JavaScript bundle
and lazy load it when it becomes
needed to improve load time
performance.
That's ideal when you
have a service that's
used by an individual module.
But what if a
service is required
by multiple lazy loaded modules?
In that case, you
may want each module
to create its own
instance of the service.
That can be achieved with
the providedIn "any" option.
Instead of a
singleton, this option
will instantiate a new
service for each module
that injects it.
And one other option
to also be aware of
is providedIn "platform," which
is relevant to projects that
use multiple
Angular applications
on a single page, such as
web components with Angular
elements, for example.
providedIn "platform"
will make the service
available to all
applications on that page.
In total, that's four different
ways to provide a service.
"root" instantiates a singleton
for an entire Angular app.
A module class provides a
singleton for just that module.
"any" provides an instance for
each module that injects it.
And "platform" provides a
singleton for multiple Angular
applications.
Now, it's also worth
noting that you
can provide a service directly
in the NgModule decorator.
Import the service you
want to provide, then
add it to the provider's array
within the NgModule decorator.
This pattern also
creates a provider.
However, it's generally
not the preferred approach
because it makes the code
more difficult to tree-shake
when a service has not
been injected anywhere.
Now, in many cases, you may
encounter the NullInjectorError
from a third-party
dependency or one
of Angular's built-in modules.
For example, imagine we import
the HTTP client into our app
component, then inject it as a
dependency in the constructor.
That also throws
an error, but you
might be wondering why
something built into Angular
would not have a provider.
There are only a handful
of minimal services
built into Angular core.
Almost everything else is
isolated in its own module.
What that means is that in
order to use the HTTP client,
we need to import its
corresponding NgModule
in the module that depends
on it, which in our case
is the app module.
And we do that by adding
it to its imports array.
Now that we know how
to fix the issue,
let's talk about injectors.
When Angular is
bootstrapped, it creates
an application-wide injector.
Its job is to create
and manage dependencies.
And it does that by maintaining
a collection of providers.
Each provider contains
a token, or class type,
that tells Angular where to
find the injectable value.
In most cases, a
provider is created
with the injectable decorator.
When that class
is then referenced
in the constructor of a
component, for example,
the injector will
use the provider
to find the existing
instance of that class
or instantiate a
new one if required.
Every dependency needs to
have at least one provider,
and that brings us to the
root of the NullInjectorError.
If there's no provider,
it just doesn't work.
Let's go ahead and recap.
When you encounter
the NullInjectorError,
it means a service was injected
without the necessary provider.
The first step is to
find the offending class.
If it's one of your
own injectable classes,
you can provide it in the
root of the application
or provide it in an NgModule.
If it's related to a
third-party dependency,
you're likely missing
an NgModule import.
Determine where that
service is provided,
then import the
corresponding NgModule.
For additional
details and examples,
check out the dependency
injection guide
in the official
Angular documentation.